---
path: "/blog/new-zealand-trip"
date: "2018-03-01"
title: "New Zealand Trip 2018"
live: false
---


### Day 0
- Landed in Queenstown
- Dinner at Winnie’s. Very filling and yummy. 9/10
- Stayed at Jason’s in Queenstown

### Day 1
- Ben Lomond walk (followed road up a bit for more direct path). 10/10. Full day walk. View is fantastic - clear day required, sunset would be epic (need head torch for descent). Can take gondola for shorter trip
- One Mile Track is good on the way down from Ben Lomonds. Follows old water pipes from mountains. Cool little falls and quiet old walk.
- Botanical gardens walk, view of pier/lights and lake/sky/mountains. Good at night. Cuban burrito

### Day 2
- Travel to Knobs Flat (near Milford). Nice cabins, friendly owner, 1hr from Milford.
- NOTE: Lake Te Anau is last fuel stop (emergency fuel at Milford)
- Mirror lakes is good place to stretch legs on way up, nice short 10min track with views
- Cascade creek track (Lake Gunn Nature Walk) is beautiful mossy dense forest. Unique. Has poo trees. Wear waterproof shoes if it’s rained recently.

### Day 3
- 4:45am start. Kayak at Milford cancelled 😥. GoOrange is apparently a good cruise
- Did Milford Foreshore walk - low tide means you can go out onto the rocks closer to the Sound
- Milford lookout walk behind the cafe. Gets you up a bit higher for a nice view of Sound
- Old Postman’s track is on your right after 3rd single lane bridge coming out of Milford Sound. Little old track (not sure how far it goes) but first 10m are gorgeous with old swing bridge and the secluded area as there isn’t a sign for it.
- The Chasm - 10mins from postman’s there’s a big car park and a nice short loop track that takes you to some mega rapids through solid rock slabs. Really cool to see in person the power of water, after rains it’s even more so.
- Lake Marian. Did first 10mins including swing bridge and waterfalls lookout - worth it. Not sure on full walk, if you have time would be worth otherwise do the next one...
- Key Summit. 3hr return walk (plus 1hr for nature walk on top - 100% worth). Gradual ascent for 1hr then steep zig zag ascent with gorgeous views for 20min.
- Travelled to Tuatapere (DO NOT GO HERE - DO NOT FUCKING EAT AT CAFE99).

### Day 4
- Leave Tuatapere (chu a tap er ree)
- Gemstone Beach is pretty nice. Find some stones, and see crazy mental persons house on headland.
- Heading to Catlins. Stopped down at Bluff to the southern point sign and had good Fish & Chips.
- Coastal walk track from the signpost to lookout is pretty if you have time. Can see southern islands.

### Day 5
- Cathedral Caves - $5 per adult. Go see 2 big caves, make sure to walk around further as there is many more caves that are unique
- Curio Bay (petrified forest)
- Purpose Bay saw Hector dolphins
- Went to lighthouse and flew in the wind. Saw sea lions playing in waves
- Went back to Curio Bay to see yellow penguins come in

### Day 6
- Depart to Dunedin
- Lost Gypsy van
- Sucart Bay (sea lion pups)
- Nugget point
- Dunedin train station

### Day 7
- Depart to Oamaru
- Awesome breakfast at Starfish Cafe on Dunedin harbour (Starfish cafe breakfast stack & superfood vege mix?)
- Lanarch castle (garden and building)
- Dunedin street art
- Round boulders walk. Moeraki
- Star & Garter - oldest restaurant, nice blue cod and lamb shank.
- Watched little blue penguins come into the town by the caravan park

### Day 8
- Depart to Mt Cook (stay in Twizel)
- Steampunk HQ
- Spoke to Jenny at the limestone carving
- Cheesecake at Cheesecake Factory
- Had lunch at Maori drawings on side of cliffs
- Didn’t go to clay cliffs as was cash only
- Mt John summit (observatory) walk for sunset and dinner (near Tekapo)
- Watch stars near Lake Pukaki

### Day 9
- Lavender farm ice cream
- Hooker valley track walk (glacial walk)
- Visitor centre mt cook
- Swim in Lake Pukaki (what was the lookout name?)

### Day 10
- Depart to Christchurch
- Swim in Lake Pukaki
- Red tarn walk
- Lavender farm
- Coriander’s curry for dinner. Fucking hot

### Day 11
- Depart to Hanmer Springs
- Christchurch botanical gardens explored and wrote postcards
- Cathedral and central cbd. Fudge
- Massages at Hanmer... 💩
- Hot springs!
- Moroccan lamb and salad 🥗

### Day 12
- Depart to Nelson - heavy rain long drive
- Wearable art and car museum
- Watched the road explode with water.
- Dinner at My Thai. Yum yum
- Played carcassone board game and table tennis 🏓 with hosts. Got a map of where to go for next day

### Day 13
- Depart to Takaka (Golden Bay)
- Went to local beach
- Went to rabbit island and found shells
- Split apple rock for lunch
- Walked to The Resurgence and dipped our feet (Riwaka)
- Howard’s lookout on our way over mountain to Takaka
- Arrived at Airbnb and had curry leaf for dinner in the town
- Abel Tasman monument walk. No stingrays :(
- Went to The Gorge lookout walk?
- Tried to spot blue pengus on beach

### Day 14
- went to pupu springs
- Went to Wharariki Beach (took longer walk)
- Ate lunch with lookout on archway
- Saw noisy and stinky sea lions
- Played in sand dunes
- Went to cape farewell and walked on cliff edges
- Stopped at cafe above farewell spit for view and read about beached Whales
- Stopped at mussel inn but passed and had dinner at dangerous kitchen (pizza - chicken and cranberry sauce)
- Tried again to spot pengus

### Day 15
- Depart to Old Slaugherhouse (Westport)
- Spent ages talking to Jennifer, Jason and drew a picture for April
- Stopped at top of Takaka Hill for Kirsten nausea break (and lookout, next to Ngaura caves)
- Drove to Westport for lunch, groceries and bag pick up organisation
- Chilled at Slaughterhouse
- Georgie stole our dinner but we got upgraded to corn and crackers

### Day 16
- Depart to hokitika (Bernie’s)
- Forgot our food in the fridge and had to go back
- Georgie attack on way back down the hill
- Did part of the Charming Creek Walkway
- Talked to Bernie, Devon and James, Missy, Jess and Hammy and played Cribbage while watching Exodus

### Day 17
- Look for greenstone all day. Got rejected by shop lady with serpentine
- Went to the blue gorge. Beautiful place, maybe try going before 10 as it was a little busy (not overcrowded though)
- Dinner on beach by sports ground between hokitika and aratuan river. Searched for more jade


### Day 18
- Depart to Mt Adams lodge
- Mocha at cafe in Takaka with live bees
- Checked out Jade shops and purchased necklaces
- Stopped at Ship creek. Has a few walks there and was quite busy. Not bad for stretching legs but nothing special. Might be nicer at a quiet rest stop
- Franz Josef glacier walk. Nice walk with view of glacier for a fair chunk of the way. This will change though as the glacier recedes more.

### Day 19
- Depart to Haast
- Stopped at Lake Matheson to see reflection of Mt Cook and Mt Tasman. Need to go dawn or dusk when zero wind to be worth (also hope for no clouds). Very busy
- Fox glacier walk closed. Went to glacier lookout car park and did river walk lookout. River walk lookout was good if you can’t do the main walk as it’s short and you get a decent view of glacier
- Went to Haast beach. Skip unless you really wanna see more ocean and crappy sand
- Sleep in pillow case - Kirsten
- Watched 9 episodes of korra
- Haast means hurry in Dutch. Hurry the fuck out of there

### Day 20
- Depart to Queenstown
- Stopped at Fantail Falls. Short 2min walk to some pretty big falls (again waterfalls are amazing after rain, the whole highway was covered in them)
- Stopped in Wanaka for Mt Iron walk and lunch. Short 1hr walk with some decent views of town and surrounding mountains. If you have more time to kill and are up for it do Roy’s Peak instead probably, meant to be awesome (weather dependent)
- Winnie’s Pizza Morocca
- Belgian hot chocolate dessert from Mrs Ferg
- Sunset while watching street performances

### Day 21
- Return to Australia
- Got to checkin way too early
- Ate muesli for “lunch”. Well Sam did
- Rejected expensive $9 sausage roll for lunch
